Q: Which of the following is listed as a benign tumor of the lips, mouth, and tongue?
   A: Squamous cell carcinoma
   B: Malignant melanoma
   C: Haemangioma
   D: Sarcoma
Answer: C

Q: Leukoplakia is defined as a white lesion of the oral mucosa that:
   A: Can be easily scraped off
   B: Is attributed to a definable lesion
   C: Cannot be scraped off and cannot be attributed to another definable lesion
   D: Is always a malignant transformation
Answer: C

Q: Which of the following is classified as a malignant tumor of the salivary gland?
   A: Pleomorphic adenoma
   B: Warthin tumor
   C: Mucoepidermoid carcinoma
   D: Oncocytoma
Answer: C

Q: What is the most common benign salivary gland tumor?
   A: Papillary cystadenoma lymphomatosum
   B: Pleomorphic adenoma
   C: Oncocytoma
   D: Adenoid cystic carcinoma
Answer: B

Q: Pleomorphic adenoma typically originates from which type of cells?
   A: Epithelial cells
   B: Myoepithelial cells
   C: Serous cells
   D: Mucinous cells
Answer: B

Q: Which benign salivary gland tumor has a high recurrence rate and a risk of malignant transformation?
   A: Pleomorphic adenoma
   B: Papillary cystadenoma lymphomatosum
   C: Oncocytoma
   D: Warthin tumor
Answer: C

Q: Which malignant salivary gland tumor is characterized by a mixed histology of adenocarcinoma with mucus secretion and sheets of squamous cell carcinoma?
   A: Adenoid cystic carcinoma
   B: Mucoepidermoid carcinoma
   C: Acinic adenocarcinoma
   D: Malignant mixed tumor
Answer: B

Q: What is the prognosis described for Acinic adenocarcinoma?
   A: Highly malignant
   B: Intermediate
   C: Less malignant
   D: Benign
Answer: C

Q: Which of the following is listed as a benign tumor of the esophagus?
   A: Carcinoma
   B: Leiomyosarcoma
   C: Leiomyoma
   D: Lymphomas
Answer: C

Q: Which factor is listed as a predisposing factor for carcinoma of the esophagus?
   A: Young age
   B: Female sex
   C: GERD
   D: Low alcohol consumption
Answer: C

Q: Barrett esophagus is considered a premalignant condition due to an abnormal change in the mucosal cells lining the lower portion of the esophagus from normal stratified squamous epithelium to:
   A: Simple cuboidal epithelium
   B: Simple columnar epithelium with interpersed goblet cells
   C: Pseudostratified columnar epithelium
   D: Transitional epithelium
Answer: B

Q: Which of the following is listed as a benign tumor of the stomach?
   A: Carcinoma
   B: Carcinoid
   C: Gastric adenoma
   D: Malignant lymphoma
Answer: C

Q: Adenomatous polyps of the stomach are considered precancerous lesions, with a higher risk of carcinoma if they are larger than:
   A: 0.5 cm
   B: 1 cm
   C: 2 cm
   D: 3 cm
Answer: C

Q: What is the commonest site for gastric carcinoma?
   A: Cardia
   B: Fundus
   C: Pyloric antrum
   D: Body
Answer: C

Q: Which type of gastric carcinoma is characterized by a diffuse infiltrating pattern causing a 'leather bottle stomach' appearance?
   A: Fungating type
   B: Ulcerating type
   C: Mucoid adenocarcinoma
   D: Linitis plastica
Answer: D

Q: Which of the following is a potential complication of gastric carcinoma due to Transcoelomic spread?
   A: Hepatic metastasis
   B: Krukenberg's tumor (ovaries)
   C: Brain metastasis
   D: Virchow's sign (left supraclavicular lymph node)
Answer: B

Q: Which of the following is listed as a malignant tumor of the small intestine?
   A: Adenoma
   B: Leiomyoma
   C: Carcinoid tumor
   D: Lipoma
Answer: C

Q: Carcinoid tumors of the small intestine primarily arise from which type of cells?
   A: Paneth cells
   B: Goblet cells
   C: Argentaffin cells
   D: Enterocytes
Answer: C

Q: Which of the following complications can arise from the bioactive products released by carcinoid tumors, such as serotonin?
   A: Hepatomegaly
   B: Partial intestinal obstruction due to muscle hypertrophy
   C: Bronchospasm and flushing
   D: Recurrent bleeding
Answer: C

Q: Which type of adenomatous polyp of the large intestine is described as single, sessile, broad, large, and showing numerous papillae or fronds (cauliflower appearance)?
   A: Tubular adenoma
   B: Villous adenoma
   C: Tubulo-villous adenoma
   D: Familial polyposis syndrome
Answer: B

Q: Familial polyposis syndromes are hereditary conditions leading to hundreds of adenomatous polyps in the GIT and are considered precancerous with malignant change occurring typically within:
   A: 1-5 years
   B: 5-10 years
   C: 10-20 years
   D: 20-30 years
Answer: C

Q: Gardener's syndrome is a familial polyposis syndrome characterized by a triad of colonic adenomatous polyps, soft tissue tumors of the small intestine, and:
   A: Brain tumors
   B: Osteoma of mandible
   C: Renal cysts
   D: Thyroid nodules
Answer: B

Q: What is the incidence of colorectal carcinoma as a malignancy of the large intestine?
   A: 50%
   B: 75%
   C: 95%
   D: 100%
Answer: C

Q: Which anatomical site is the commonest (75%) for colorectal carcinoma?
   A: Ascending colon
   B: Transverse colon
   C: Recto-sigmoid
   D: Cecum
Answer: C

Q: In Duke's staging of colon cancer, which stage corresponds to tumor infiltration of the whole thickness of the intestine with a cure rate of 70%?
   A: Stage A
   B: Stage B
   C: Stage C
   D: Stage D
Answer: B

Q: According to the TNM staging, what does T3 represent for a tumor?
   A: Tumor invades submucosa
   B: Tumor involves muscularis propria but does not cross it
   C: Tumor extends beyond muscularis propria into mesorectal or pericoloc fat
   D: Tumor invades adjacent organs or perforates the visceral peritoneum
Answer: C

Q: In TNM staging, what does N2 indicate?
   A: No nodal metastasis
   B: 1-3 perirectal or pericolic nodes
   C: 4 or more perirectal or pericolic nodes
   D: Cannot be assessed
Answer: C

